From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hansel minutes, a weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologists. Scott Hanselman posted by
Carl Franklin. This is Lauren's Ryan
announcing show number 89. Recorded
live Thursday, November 15, 2007.
Support for Hanselman. It says
provided by Tellerik already controls
the most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forums and
asp.net web application. online@wwwdottelerik.com. Support
is also provided by.net developers
journal the world's leading.net developer
magazine online at www dot
dot com. In this
episode, Scott talks with longtime
Microsoft developer, Larry Osterman. Hi,
this is Scott Hansel and
this is another episode of
Hansel minutes. And I'm sitting
here in building 85, 85
with Larry Osterman, long time
Microsoft employee. How long have
you been here? A bit
over 23 years. Wow. Okay.
Have you ever been in
this office that long? I've
been in this office for
about a month and a
half, two months? Maybe I
noticed that your name tag
out, for instance, a Lawrence.
I'm not sure who put
that up. Probably not. You,
some facilities person pulled it
out because that's the name
that's used on official documents.
And when I was hired
in here, of course you
use your official name, the
name that's on your social
security card, but there ain't
nobody. I know who calls
me that I was gonna
say, I was like, is
this the same guy? I
wasn't sure what's your, is
your badge number really low
that's numbers don't matter that
they, they don't know relationship
between badge number and employee.
Oh, cause I got a
low and I was like,
Oh, I feel special. I
have a little badge now.
I mean, my badge number
is got five digits and
it's in the mid five
digits. So it's not like
badge eight or something. No.
I mean, as of today
I have I'm number 31
in seniority in the company.
So I'm not sure where
that gets you. Maybe a
bit. Doesn't get me anything
can get in line at
the picnic earlier. It doesn't
get me anything. I mean,
I actually, I don't even,
I don't even get in
line in the picnic. All
I get is a, well,
I get a, a, I
get a little glass plaque
that says hi, you've been
here for a really, really
long time. There are people
in your group who were
not born when you started
working at Microsoft. Doesn't say
they're scary. Yeah. It's funny.
I went through a, I've
only been here eight weeks.
I've been in the industry
about 15 years, but I've
only been at Microsoft eight
weeks. I went through Neo
and it gave a couple
of interesting statistics. First one
was that 16% of the
company was hired in the
last year. That's Oh yeah,
It was, it was an
unspeakable. And then when they
said, how many people here
are being hired out of
college, like how, you know,
most of the room's hands
went up and I was
just like, and I was
feeling old. I was hired
out of college. I've never
worked at another company. Really?
You've had one W2 your
whole life. I have had
one W2. I just got
to make the paperwork so
much easier. Yeah. That's great.
Did you, now, when you
have that kind of perspective,
I mean, you've got 23
years here, 25, 23 years
in the business. Why aren't
you burned out? I mean,
I'm burned out. I just
don't. I just kind of
go, I'm going to become
a nurse. I'm going to
stop programming. I'm done. This
is ridiculous. Computers are stupid.
Don't you do that? No.
The wonderful thing about working
at Microsoft especially is that
there's always something cool happening.
There's always something really cool.
And there is no other
place in the world that
you can work on something
and have what you work
on. Touch the lives of
literally a billion people. I
mean, there's 800 million people, 500 million
people out there who are
using software that I wrote
the stuff I worked on
for windows Vista. There's probably
close to a hundred million
people using that. Now think
about that. That's like insane
that there's that many people
using. And frankly, there's a
ton of really cool things
that Microsoft does. It really
is. I mean, Yeah. Where
am I gross off? It's
both, But it's not, if
you, if you've got the
right attitude and it's just
fun. Oh, I mean, in
23 years, I've done network
file systems. I've done discovery
agents. I've worked on email
servers. I've worked on embedded
chips for home automation. I've
done audio. I mean, video
delivery systems. I've done all
sorts of things. And the
really cool thing about working
for Microsoft is that when
you get tired of your
job, you don't have to
go looking for a job
somewhere else. You can just
find something really cool and
neat. That's just in the
next building over. And that's
just, I just love that.
No, that's, that's interesting that
you say that because I
mean, I'm only like two
months in the job. I'm
like, yeah, I don't know
if I'm going to do
this for the rest of
my life. And I said
that to someone at Microsoft,
I was like, Oh, that's
okay. You'll have a totally
different job in 18 months.
Yeah. Maybe something, I don't
know. I mean, the idea
that you can bounce around.
I mean, how do you
do that? I mean, how
long have you been in
the job that you've been
now? About five years in
my current job, I was
about six years in the
job. And in six years
in exchange, four years in
windows and T You just
decided it was time. And
we just said, Oh, you
know, I think I'm ready
to do something else Time.
It was time to, you
know, in exchange we shipped
exchange 2000 and I was
burned out and I was
burned out and there's no
question. I was burned out.
I was tired of doing
it. And I said, okay,
fine. I'm done I'm outta
here. And went and looked
for a job and found
something that was nice and
low stress for a couple
of years. That was that
embedded chip thing, which is
a very small project. It
was like five people working
on it. And you know,
when that one finally shipped,
I went looking for another
job. And in that case,
another job found me, which
was this job on the
sound team. Yes. That's a
good question. So what are
you working on now? You
are on your own 17.
What kind of things are
you working on? Well, our
team owns the audio infrastructure
for windows. And so I'm
working on stuff for the
next version of windows. And
unfortunately I can't say what
that stuff is. We can
talk about Vista. I mean,
it sounds to sum up,
I understand quickly changed dramatically
invested. Did it not. We
threw away everything above the
driver level and replaced it.
And we also dropped on
a, dropped in a new
driver model as well for
new drivers, but existing drivers
continue to work. We changed
everything else. It all used
to be running as drivers
in the kernel and we
moved it all up into
user mode. And we then
rewrote all of the API
APIs that work with, worked
with the old system to
work with the new system.
One of the things that
was from a user's perspective
that I found the most
surprising about Vista was when
I clicked on the volume
and I had separate volume
for each application. That was
mine. That was, was that
seriously? That was seriously me.
That was seriously me. That
was, that was my, that
was the thing I was
working on and had been
working on for the past
four years off. More or
less meant a lot of
other things. But my big
thing I'd been working on
was perhaps volume and volume
control in general was one
of the things that I
spent, you know, Oh my
God, Microsoft has some guy
who spent four years working
on just the volume control.
And he actually, he did
did Microsoft did it, it
turns out it turns out
actually it's a surprisingly hard
problem, especially per application volume
control, because what an what's
an application you can say,
we want per application volume
control. And that's a really
easy thing to say and
to put on a slide
And someone did that.
I assume someone had that
idea and thought it was
important enough for you to
spend Exactly somebody did. Somebody
sat down and said, we
have customers who are complaining
about this problem. We need
to fix it. So we're
going to fix it. And
we went off and said,
okay, well it turns out
that at the wind 32
level at the OSTP level,
an application is a process,
right? But from a customer
standpoint, that's not necessarily what
they see. It's probably a
task bar button. The task
bar button is what exactly
is what users think, but
a task, our button, it
turns out isn't really very,
there's no way of knowing.
I could have 50 task
bar buttons that are associated
with one process. I can't
differentiate it. Half of those
task bar buttons might not
be doing anything with audio
at all. How do I
tell, how do I correlate?
How do I relate those?
And it turns out it's
a very hard problem. Hosting
environment, hosting environments also cause
problems, internet Explorer is in
Firefox are the big ones.
These are applications that tabs.
For instance, if you've got
multiple tabs, you can have
different multimedia content playing on
each of those tabs. You
may not even know that
it is because there's some
ad that's playing an annoying
sound in the background. I
hate it to nothing, The
new tab. And then somebody
starts playing, Hey, how's it
going? Huh. And you can't
all tab to it because
it's behind another tab. I
cannot tell you how much
I despise websites that announced
themselves with audio. I just
find that extraordinarily annoying, but
those are hosted. Those are
all living within one or
one process. But again, to
the user there, they're different.
It's not just, it's not
another application cause they know
it's all within an Explorer,
but they want to treat
them differently. So it's a
very, very, very hard problem.
We had to make some
compromises to, to get things
working in a way that
would make users happy. So
how much of that logic,
when you say it's a
very hard problem? I, in
my mind, I'm kind of
like drawing truth tables and
trying to figure out how
I would solve something like
that. And certainly I can't
solve your five-year problem and
20 seconds of thinking about
it. But my first impression
is, is this something that
is fuzzy logic? Is there
heuristics about this or is
it fairly, just a fairly
complicated flow chart where it's
like, here are all the
edge cases that we're going
to handle. Here are some
applications that we know that
are poorly behaved as far
as their, their multiple processes.
What the user thinks of
them as one application, are
there multiple tasks where buttons
mean, what kinds of hints
is the app giving you?
Well, the big one is
a process. And that's what,
what we finally decided to
do was to go with
the process is your natural
boundary. And it turns out
it's actually not that complicated
where we had a solution
that wasn't actually that complicated
when we finally got down
to it. And the challenge
of course is coming up
with a solution that is
not that complicated. You can
come up with really, really
complicated ones, but the simple
ones are almost always better.
In this case, what we
did was we defined this
concept of an audio session
and an audio session is
simply a collection of audio
streams. So when you're playing
audio, we generate, you generate
a stream of bits of
16 bit or 32 bit
or whatever it is, numbers.
And we aggregate each of
those streams into what we
call a session by default,
a process has a session
and it's just got a,
it has an idea of
zero. When you create, when
you construct an audio stream,
you say, you can optionally
say, I want this audio
stream to be in a
session with the name of
Fred you, the application developer,
get to choose a session.
And then from that actually
turns out almost everything else
falls out. The only thing
we had to add to
that on top of that
initial idea was the concept
of a cross process session.
And that's actually used for
the window. Sounds I don't
know if you've noticed that
there's one slider that's always
pinned there for windows sounds
right? Because my question was,
as someone might go and
say and explore opened each
thing in a different process,
a window, and you might
have multiple instances of it
System sounds. And actually we
enhanced the place on API.
The third party applications can
use this system sounds I'm
sorry for place on it's
the sound underscore system flag,
but system sounds basically have
a, their own session and
there's basically just, it's a
flag and they they're, they
run cross process. In that
case, the audio engine or
the volume control logic in
the audio engine doesn't care.
What process is being used
to play the audio? Again,
a session is a collection
of streams where those streams
can come from one process
from multiple processes, the engine
doesn't Care. Okay. So let's
say I've got windows media
player and that's running a,
some audio and something goes
wrong. The file's corrupt and
then a message box pops
up and it goes Wong
that's coming from. Yeah. And
that would have the system
sound volume associated with it.
And that's because the message
box API calls into, through
a surprisingly complicated path, unfortunately
calls into a piece of
code that's running in the
system that eventually calls plays
out and it specifies the
sound system sound flag. So
we, we try to differentiate
notification sounds that the system
generates and audio that the
application generates. And as I
said, for applications that use
that have environmental effects, like
click navigation sounds or new
mail notifications, you can actually,
you can set flags basically
that you, you can, you
can, you can opt into
the, I really want to
treat this as if it
was a system sound and
not like my sound, because
it's really an environmental part
of the experience. It's something
that had just, you know,
I'm just making clicks and
beeps or whatever it is
in the background. So if
the user is, if they
user meaning the application developer
is not setting these flags,
if they haven't chosen to
take advantage of these, it
shows up as their process.
It just goes by process.
And so that, that's what
makes it simple because in
my mind I was thinking
that you're taking all sorts
of cues about what shows
up in the volume control
because the window is visible
and there is a process.
So, you know, I can't
find out any of that
information. You're too deep. Aren't
you, I'm too deep in
the audio service. I'm completely
isolated from the user's desktop.
I have no knowledge and
cannot have any knowledge about
windows or anything like that.
That's actually because it was
mostly because of a security
feature that was put in
for windows Vista called session
zero, isolation it out. There's
a lot of applications that
in windows XP said, ah,
I'm a service, but I
can enumerate everything on the
user's desktop and they can,
I can, I can figure
out what windows servers can
interact with this service. Well,
it's not even that because
in, in, even if you
didn't have the service can
interact, you could still enumerate
if you were in session
zero. So if you were
the very first user logged
onto the machine, it worked
fine. And there's a lot
of applications and services that
figured they could do that.
And it turns out they
never actually really worked their
test matrix. Wasn't good enough.
They never tested the fast
user switching scenario cause they
would've discovered even under XP
that under fast user switching,
it just didn't work. Yeah,
well Invista, it, it turned
out there's this class of
security holes called shatter attacks
that occur when you have
a privileged service that can
interact with the desktop or
more importantly, a privileged service
that can bring up user
interface on the desktop. So
one of the features, one
of the security fixes that
went into windows Vista is
this concept that we call
sessions or isolation. And basically
all services are isolated away
from the desktop and they
have no ability to interact
with the desktop. That way
when the user is sitting
there, that it completely neutered
that entire class of vulnerabilities,
you simply can't have a
shatter attack in windows Vista
because it's just gone stuffs
the vector that was used
to make that attack is
gone. So if someone upgrades,
someone had one of these
evil things in their system
and upgraded to Vista, that
that thing is ultimately just
neutered. It may be on
the system, but it's can't
do anything. Yeah. And it's
not an evil thing, actually.
It's very clear. It's not
an evil thing to do
this. It's just something that
a programmer took a shortcut
that he really shouldn't have
there, but they're not evil
hapless. They're not evil. But
the problem is is that
their code sometimes has bugs
in it. And that's where
the problem came from. And
that the original shatter attack
was because there was a
bug in some code and
it was an iOS bug
if I remember correctly, but
that was a, there was
a bug in some code
and you could use this
vulnerable, this, this vulnerability, this
class of attacks to exploit
and to own a person's
machine. These apps have bugs
in them sometimes. And it's
unfortunately the nature and they
would pop up their UI.
And all of a sudden
the bad guy could take
advantage of that. One of
the particular cases I remember
there was an antivirus application.
So you put a virus
on your machine, the antivirus
scanner says, you have a
virus on your machine. And
the virus says, Oh, look,
the antivirus program just popped
up. And then they exploited
a vulnerability in the antivirus
program. And I have no
idea which one it is.
I opened up the portal
and the thing jumps through
and they jumped through it.
And then the virus just
jumped through and it's pretty
clever. I, at my heart,
I'm a security nutcase. I'm
a security geek. That's my
that's. My passion is security
and the NPR and the
ma the mechanisms around security
and stuff like that. And
I have a huge, huge,
huge amount of respect for
the engine nuity of the
people who do security research
and who find vulnerabilities and
the techniques that they use.
Because while many of the
people who use the technology
and the techniques that they,
these guys were doing, the
researchers have less than superior
skills. Many of the people
who are actually designing the
stuff or the pejorative phrases,
script kiddies, they're just taking
work. Somebody else did and
building on it. But the
people who actually do the
real research, I have a
lot of respect for these
guys because what they're doing
is really hard. It takes
a specialized skillset. And a
lot of times some of
the stuff that they're finding
and that they turn into
viable weaponized, payload, or payload
that can actually be used
to reliably. It takes lot
of work and a lot
of time and practice and
patience to find some of
these things. And that's just
cool Watching this dance between
the iPhone and the people
who want to release the
iPhone is unreal. It's like
I watch, I look at
N gadget yesterday, new iPhone
update everything's back the way
it was. We're all shut
out. 20 minutes later, we're
back. It's exactly right. If
you open a TIF file
inside of the browser, then
we're back and then they
get it down to the
point where it's a webpage.
They got it down to
the point where you could
actually just visit a web
page. And I mean, think
of the, I mean, I
always, I always have this
image in my mind that
I know that we've got
a bigger international audience, so
forgiving, but I always imagine
this 17 year old Danish
kid, you know, who's off
somewhere solving this problem. And
they have just the patience
of job to keep poking
bits out, into space and
then do a jump and
see if that is a
place to That is what
they that's exactly what they
do. And some of these
guys, I mean, some of
these guys are really, really
sophisticated. There was a talk
I attended last year and
the presenter of the talk
commented. This was about hardware
encryption. So it explicitly was
about hacking game consoles. And
one of the guys was
commenting. So, you know, one
of the things people don't
understand is some of us
have like scanning electron microscopes
in our living room. And
he puts up a slide
that has a picture of
his living room. And darn
if there isn't a scanning
electron microscope next to his
couch, and he uses that
he sands off the epoxy
on the top of the
chips of the things he's
trying to hack. And he
uses this electron microscope to
read the internal circuitry, to
find out what it does.
How do they, the thing
that blows me away is
it Learn that. And as,
and I know I saying
that I'm an old timer,
and I just am saying
that when you have five
years, 10 years, you get
these different milestones in your
career, you kind of go,
wow, it's taken the sum
total of all these years
for me to get to
this point. And then you
meet someone who's 22, who
has surpassed you, how do
you, if they don't teach
it in school, how do
you pick up, you know,
25 years of security experience
in four and four years,
and then with a scan
electronic Microsoft break into a
console, I just, the acceleration
of the speed at which
they can absorb that is
unbelievable. Well, I don't know
a lot of it frankly
is cause, cause cause kids
start earlier the technology, I
mean, when I was starting
back in the dark ages,
I mean, you were lucky
if you had an Apple
two in your house, you
know, an Apple two or
a TRSA registered shady. You
were lucky. I mean, it
was a big deal. It
was a guy in, down
the hall from me in
the dorms at college who
had a TRS 80 and
we would wander by cause
he was like, he was
cool. He had a computer
in his office when I
started, we were in the
big iron age, you know?
And what that meant was
that, you know, when I
got to high school, I
got a chance to do
time sharing on a real
computer, but no had no
other experience. And it was
somebody else's computer. We broken
into that one very quickly.
That was a computer that
had, was secure in name
only. We didn't take us
very long to find holes
in it, but it was
not that I'm a hacker
at all. It's just, and
I have actually no skills
in that area. It's just,
this was so easy. It
was. But back in the
late seventies, early eighties, we
didn't care. Nobody cared nowadays.
Of course it's scary. And
I was actually, I was
reading cliff Stolz Cuckoo's egg,
which for some reason I'd
never read. I was reading
that a couple months ago.
And he's reading about how
he's writing, about how the
hackers are taking, copying our
password files. And it doesn't
make any sense that they'd
be CA caking our password
files because you can't do
anything with a password file
because the passwords are encrypted
in the file. And it
doesn't do you any good
to have the file to
do it? Cause you can't
do anything. And I'm like,
I'm reading this. And I
was going to my head.
It's like, no, no, no.
There are mounting offline dictionary
attack against your password file
because you can do this.
No, no, no. Can't you
see that? And of course
he couldn't because back in
1984, when this happened, nobody
had thought about offline dictionary
attacks or at least it
wasn't a wasn't that something
that people were really thinking
about Well, and not even
offline dictionary texts with this
rainbow hash thing, basically what
people are doing is they're
taking kind of this, you
know, the sum total of
all words that could ever
exist plus numbers plus, and
they'll make 16, 17 gig
files using old land manager
hashes from years ago and
they'll just scan through it
and they'll go, they'll go
backwards from the hash to
the password. Absolutely. That's why
land man just turned off.
And that's why land managers
talk to her, not by
fault in Vista because, and
I'm so happy that it's
finally off in Vista because
we, we made some real
serious mistakes back in the
1980s. And this is, these
are mistakes that were made
in the eighties when it
wasn't so insanely critical to
get it right. And I
don't think anybody really fully
understood at that time, just
how hard it is to
get security, right? And more
importantly, how easy it is
to make mistakes insecure by
default as well. It's not
just that it turns out
it with a, with a,
with a set of relatively
reasonable things. You can actually
make a fairly robust system
and you validate your inputs
always stay away from the
unsafe API calls. There's a,
there's a couple of really
mechanical things that you can
do that are actually do
a pretty good job of
that. But it's when you
start saying, Oh, I'm going
to design an authentication system.
Well, I'm going to design
it, authentications that that's actually
hard. And it turns out
if you don't actually talk
to people who have done
this in the past to
design these for a living,
you're going to get it
wrong. And it, we see
this time and time and
time again because people try,
they, they build their own
encryption algorithms and they try
them and they don't work.
And I can't break my
own encryption algorithm. You see
people post this regularly. I
come up with a new
unbreakable encryption algorithm, Making sure
I'm making sure where keys.
I made a little application
in the nineties for the
Palm pilot to manage blood
sugar. And I rather than
buying, paying the $50 to
buy a license manager for
my shareware keys, I invented
an algorithm. And I mean,
this was a niche within
a niche within a niche
because we're talking about type
one diabetics with Palm pilots
who are geeks. So six
people cared about this application
and there was an exploit
and a crack within a
week. Yeah. I'm not surprised.
Yeah. It's very, very, very,
very hard to get that.
Right. And which is why,
you know, one of the
things that Michael Howard, Dave LeBlanc
and their writing, so your
code book, they're basically comedies
whenever you get the urge
to design your own, cryptosystem
resist. It just, just don't
do it. It's just not
worth the effort because you're
going to get it wrong.
Unless you're like one of
the 20 or 30 people
in the world who are
capable of designing encryption systems,
the same is true of
authentication systems when we rolled
our own on some stuff
back in the eighties. And
we're only now getting, we're
only now able to cut
the cord on this. And
I'm just really, really, really,
really happy that those systems
that we deployed back in
the eighties have now finally
upgraded. Most people have gotten
rid of their windows, 95
Lucerne. Our cups are corporate
customers and have gotten who,
the ones who care about
these passwords and stuff like
that. Most of them have
gotten rid of their windows,
95 machines. They're now finally
moving to operating systems clients
that can actually be secured
and that have the ability
to be secure. So for
those listeners that don't have
the context we talked to
talked about land manager briefly,
and there's a number of
DLLs in our LM, this
and that. I mean, you'll
find those keys in windows,
but people may not necessarily
have an understanding of that
history. I mean, what is,
what does that, and how
did it, why is it
still with us? When I
started at Microsoft, we were
just shipping dos 3.1, which
was for the PCAT. And
the IBM had come up
with a product called the
PC land program, which was
basically our very first networking
client. We shipped a server,
an IBM ship to server
for this. And this was
the ms. Net product. Its
replacement was a product called
land manager, which shipped sometime
in the 1980s and was
moderately successful. It was a
competitor to the network product
that Novell had produced. And
that was wildly successful. As
I said, there were some
deficiencies in the authentication algorithms,
some really serious ones in
the authentication algorithm that were
identified after we shipped moving
forward.  we produced a
product for OSU called land
manager, actually worked on that
product. And I ran it
for years. I was, I
was, I actually never was
on iOS two. I was
on, I was on the
predecessor product T O S
T. That's what I was
started. I worked on when
I started and I worked
on and I'm ended up
moving, saying on that project
while we end of life,
that basically we, we, we
satisfied some corporate customer requirements
that we had contracts with
customers who had to deliver.
And, but I moved off
that onto the land manager
project, which was, it was
a product for us to
a network printer. That's actually
where the land manager password
security was, was created and
was, was rolled out. First.
We carried that on through
to NT and within two,
three, one and three five,
and all of our networking
products had support for this
NTLM style authentication, which is
the citizens land manager of
the day. So we say,
so people who are out
there and maybe people who
have just begun, you know,
when they say NTLM, they
don't really know what they
did, they just it's an
acronym, but it means new
technology or what does it
say? Windows NT, land manager.
And we had at some
point the networking stuff inside
of windows and T was
called and land manager, friend
T or something. Right. But
now when we think about
windows authentication and we may
refer to it as NTLM,
if we're talking to Vista
machines or newer machines, we
may refer to it colloquially
as NTLM, but it's not
using anything with these exploits
anymore. Oh, let me keep
on going. Sorry. NTLM V
one had some very severe
problems sometime. And I don't
exactly remember where we rolled
out a version two clients
from before that timeframe, which
unfortunately includes windows 95, had
you all use this older
weaker land manager, 1.0 authentication.
And we've had, we've been
trying over the years to,
to, to weed those clients
out and not support it.
And with mixed results. Finally,
now all of those old
clients are gone and when
windows Vista, we finally cut
the cord and said, okay,
we will no longer support
this older, old authentication mechanism.
And what that means is
that windows 95 clients, which
still use the weaker authentication
will no longer be supported.
They can no longer inter-operate
or connect to NT machines
using the poor authentication mechanism.
They have to use some
other mechanism. Then the term
NTLM, it kind of lives
on to just mean windows
authentication, Sort of, yes, there
are two styles of windows
authentication right now. There is
NTLM, which is this NTLM
Vitu protocol. And then there
is Kerberos, which was introduced
with windows 2000. Most of
the time when you're talking
from a domain joined windows,
computer, that's running windows 2000
or greater to another domain,
join windows 2000 computer or,
or later you're using the
Kerberos authentication mechanism to do,
to authenticate between the two
and Kerberos. It turns out
is a very high quality
peer reviewed industrial strength authentication
system developed at MIT that
we've adopted as our peer
to peer authentication. And it's
actually very good. Very high
quality is resistant to a
huge variety of security attacks
that the older protocol, the
older NTLM protocol is not
cannot is vulnerable to is
a really much better solution.
We still support NTLM for
non domain joined machines. So
if you are not a
member of the domain, and
you're trying to talk from
one computer to another, when
you're talking on your home,
for instance, then we're going
to use the NTLM authentication
mechanism because Kerberos requires a
domain. So this might be
an odd question and an
odd tangent, but at home
I run a work group.
So I've got a server.
I think it's a windows
home server or whatever. And
in order to be able
to access shares, I have
to have another user. I
make local to that machine
with the same name and
the same password. And I
have to keep those passwords
kind of in sync manually.
The wife doesn't know that
this happens. So when she
goes and she says, whack,
whack server, how, how is
that working? I mean, how,
how has that hash lining
up correctly? And I'm not,
you know, I don't know
if I'm using the right
terms, but how is she
able to just seamlessly get
access to that machine by
virtue of the fact that
I've put the same passage
on the same machine, Because
there are three pieces to
your password, okay, there's your
domain, your username and the
password. There's the three things
that are used to authenticate
you to determine who you
are when you're a member
of a work group, when
you're not a member of
a domain, your domain is
the machine upon what you've
been logged on, But not
the work group, not, Not
the work group. Okay. When
you go to contact another
machine in the work group,
it tries using the username
domain and password. And as
I understand it, and I
may be slightly wrong on
this, but on a non
domain joined machine, what the
system does is it first
tries to authenticate you using
the domain user and password.
If that fails, it says,
Oh, I'm going to throw
away the domain park. Since
I'm not in a domain,
I'm just going to try
the username and password. And
I'm going to look it
up again in my local
database. So when your wife
connects or when you connect,
you're accessing the machine and
it comes in and says,
hi, I'm on, you know,
the kitchen, computer and accident
server. And so you get
kitchen Scott and Scott's password
that doesn't work. So the
server then says, Oh, okay,
well, how about I just
try the server and Scott
and Scott's password. And that
works. And that's how it
lets you in. And that's
where that, and that's that
NTLM V2 that's done using
the NTLM. Yes, that's done
using the NTLM Vitu. So
then that sounds like a,
probably a good reason to
be, yeah. Maybe close enough.
I mean, I know where
we can't go into the
tech incredibly technical details, but
the general idea that would
be that it would be
a lot more secure, a
lot more secure leads you
to manage centrally located. If
I just put a domain
in my house, Which has
its own set of issues.
Yeah, exactly. Okay. Putting a
domain in your house has
its own set of things
that come along with them.
Domains tend to be a
little bit higher maintenance for
most home users, myself included.
It's not worth the effort.
The added security I get
is not worth the cost
of that. The added security
I get from rolling out
a windows 2000 or Vista
server, 2003, whatever vis server
in my house, the added
security I get, as far
as using Kerberos inside my
house is not sufficient. In
my opinion, personally, as to
justify that other people may
have others. Now, there may
be other reasons why you
want to deploy small business
server in your house. You
know, you may want to
deploy some, all business server,
cause you want to do
email management and you want
to run a web server
out of your house or
something like that. And you
know, that, that might make
some sense. And that I
certainly know a lot of
people who have done that
and you get, but I
wouldn't actually deploy 2003 or
2008 or whatever. Yeah. Just
for the security, because the
kind of attacks that I'm
talking about that the current
clients are vulnerable to don't
typically involve home scenarios. They
can theoretically, and there's absolutely
are potential issues there. And
I don't want to, but
I don't see that being
an issue for most customers
Years and years ago when,
when Comcast cable first came
out and they didn't partition
things where you could actually
go into the work in
the network neighborhood and see
your neighbor, I used to
connect to their printer and
just print out messages. So
they would show up and
they'd have, hi, it's your
neighbor. You might want to
think about putting a password
on your printer. Yeah, well
that's cause they print that's
cause they were, they, they
left, they left to go.
They, they left the guest
account open and well yeah.
What do you know? Yeah.
It's there are yeah, there
certainly are. Yeah. Yeah. One
last question I wanted to
ask you that I thought
that was really, really interesting
on your blog. I know
that you've got to get
going is that you had
a really great post talking
about threat modeling and you
did threatening a specific API.
You basically took One thing.
I was play sound. Yep.
Model the hell out of
it. And I assume that
you do that with any
public API has to be
given this kind of a
treatment. My job as I,
whenever anybody asks, what do
you do? My answer is
I'm the guy who makes
windows go ding. It's one
of the reasons why I
really like this job is
because I could finally have
an I can, I can
explain my job in like
five words. It's great. Yeah.
So I used the place
on API, which is what
makes the ding and I,
that I own let sit
among other things, but I
own that API is one
of the things. So I
chose that because it's an
API that has where there's
complexity associated with it. But
it's simple enough that I
can re I can do
a complete threat model for
it in a blog post.
Cause I try to keep
my blog posts to around
500, 800 words. And really,
I didn't realize you put
that thought into it. Yeah.
Hmm. Yeah. This is the,
yeah, I do. And I
try to keep it in
that range. I can write
volumes, but frankly it takes
a lot of time. The
more you write, the more
it takes time. It takes.
And I do this in
my spare time. So I
don't tend to, I can't
devote huge amounts of time
to it. So I want
to be able to have
something I could do in,
in smaller chunks. Frankly. I
think people get fatigued when
they try to read really,
really long things. They, your
eyes glaze over and you
start going to textbook mode
and you just sort of
look for the highlights. So
I wanted something small that
could work and that, that
actually had some real threats
that would have to be
mitigated. So that was why
I chose that Play sound
threat. I mean, if I'm
gonna attack, play sound, what
would I have tried? And
what would fail? Ah, well,
play sound plays a file.
It plays a wave file.
Okay. We were talking and
you had actually just made
a post in your blog
post about recovering a corrupted
wave file. Okay. Well guess
what? Corrupted wave files are
a really good way to
attack play sound. If you
wanted to attack place on
place out as a Phi
is an API that opens
a file parses. The contents
of that file reads the
contents of that file based
on some of the information
that was parched from it,
and then hands it to
some other API APIs to
play. That's a lot of
input you're taking. There's a
lot of input. There's a
lot of data that has
to be parsed in that
if that data isn't parsed
correctly, bad things can happen.
It also has modes where
it will take a location
in memory again, parse it.
So the, there are lots
of inputs to this API.
There's the file name itself.
I'd start handing in really
long file names. See whether
you can, you can trip
a buffer overflow based on
the file name. That's harder
to disassembly bake exploitable, but
maybe you could do something
with the filing. Maybe you
could do something with the
file contents. If you have
the ability to write to
the registry place on API
can write, can read from
the user's registry. So if
you've got some software running
on the user's account, maybe
you could find a way
to cause some problems play
sound by manipulating the registry.
Now that's less useful in
terms of as a way
of attacking the system because
the place on API itself,
it turns out it runs
in the context of the
user. There's no networking interaction.
Part of the moving of
things out from the place
has always been, it's always
been up there. Okay. So
please sound's always been up
there in user mode. It's
always been living in the
cottage. So there's really not
a lot in terms of
like cracking the system wide
open that you can do
with the place on API,
but maybe, maybe you're a
bad guy and you can
figure out a way to
get a file into the
user's hard disk. And then
maybe you can find a
program that will play that
file. So let's imagine a
hypothetical web browser. And I
don't actually know, I don't
believe that there are any
web browsers that do this,
but let's imagine a hypothetical
web browser. And somebody says,
Oh, I want to implement
the BG sound HTML tag,
which basically takes away file.
So it takes a path
to a wave file and
plays that. That's how, how
that stupid, annoying background sound
we talked about gets played,
or one of the ways
it gets played. I'm going
to put exploit code into,
I find I can exploit
place on and I've got
a browser that's gonna call
place out. I'm gonna put
exploit code into my wave
file. That will crack play
sound. Now what's the browser
going to do? The browser
is going to open look
at the file URL. It's
going to take that URL
off of my server. It's
going to copy that file
to the user's local hard
dive. And then the browser
is going to call, play
sound with the contents of
that file. Well, I have
two possible ways I can
trick place that the, the
browser first off I could
pass a really, really long
founding. Maybe the browser puts
it into the local cache,
but keeps the name, the
last portion of the file
name. So maybe I could
convince this non-existent browser to
use that. Or maybe if
I can find a file
format vulnerability, I can click
that browser to cause play
sound to read that file.
And if the, I can
cause browser to read that
file. Now, all of a
sudden I might be able
to get code running in
the context of the currently
logged on user. So I've
now elevated my privileges from
anonymous, which is the internet
to running as the user.
Now you could say, well,
it's the fault of the
browser? The browser should be
checking that well, how does
the browser know that there's
this vulnerable code living underneath
it? It's just calling the
system API. It's not, it's
not doing anything that it
sees as being anything particularly
wrong. And, and I agree,
and the fiction should not
be in the browser. The,
the bug is that the
low level API, if you
have somebody who's calling it
unexpectedly on behalf of input
from an anonymous source, you
could have a problem. And
that's why it's important to
do everything. And in fact,
part of the SDL security
development life cycle process includes
threat modeling every single feature
in the system and that
not necessarily every API is
threat model, but certainly every
feature, every component in the
system and for windows Vista,
we went through and we
put, we did threat models
for a ton of the
pieces of the operating system.
We actually did a lot
of work And I assumed
it while you were doing
it. You learned stuff. I
mean, you didn't do it
to validate that, Hey, we're
awesome. Look at secure, but
you probably discovered all sorts
of interesting things. We discovered
all sorts of interesting threats
and also of sorts of
interesting things. Actually there there's
currently a disputed threat or
associated with speech recognition. This
made a big splash back
in January. I believe somebody,
I think it may have
been George oo ZD net
blogger noticed that if he
turned on speech recognition and
played back a wave file
that he had recorded with
the windows recorder that he
could cause the wave file
to convince speech recognition, to
take actions on his behalf.
Okay. I mean, that's really
clever. I think it's a
bad idea at some point,
But it's a, it's a
threat. There's a, there is
a threat. Yeah. I suppose
if I held a cell
phone up to it, I
could probably have people on
the cell phone till my
computer, The common vulnerabilities database,
the CVE people that sort
a clearing house for data
vault for vulnerabilities, the CVE
people call, they believe that
this is a vulnerability in
windows Vista, Microsoft disputes. This
Microsoft believes that this is
a Microsoft MSRP. People have
looked at it and they've
said, I don't know about
how important this is. Does
that mean I can run
down the halls of Microsoft
here in start yelling format
C colon as I run
by someone's office. In fact,
and if in fact they
were running Speech recognition, it's
possible that if your speech
recognition was trained, to be
able to recognize your voice,
you could in fact cause
problems. And so that's why
I said it's disputed. There
are different people who believe
differently. This, we actually found
this as part of our
threat modeling process. This was
one of the threats that
we covered that we, we
said, Oh, somebody could use
speech recognition. And in the
case of the audio team,
we said, Oh well, you're
right. We could, but that's
out of scope for the
audio team. And then we
sent them out to the
speech guys saying, Hey, by
the way, this is a
theoretical issue. They made a
decision like you did that.
You know, we've got a
lot of work to do.
And the reality is, is
that the severity of this
particular phone bill, and that
is something you have to
understand is that security is
a continuum for every, you
can't fix every, they are
going to hate me for
saying this. The security guys
are gonna hate me for
saying this, but it's a
continuum. Okay? There is no
such thing as perfect security.
You can be completely insecure
that, that there is totally
clarity, but there is no
such thing as perfect security.
It is a continuum. And
at some point when it
comes time to when you're
in the business of shipping
products, at some point, you
need to say, okay, we
have to ship. We have
to make a decision that
align where below this line,
we're not going to fix
it. And above this line,
we are, you classify your,
your threats, according to the
amount of damage that can
be caused, the likelihood that
they can happen. And you
make decisions about what fit,
what what's feature, what bugs
you fix, what bugs you
don't fix. You know, every
bug that we know that
could give an attacker, the
ability to completely take over
the machine where we're probably
going to fix those things
that could cause an attacker
to do something bad. Yeah.
Some Microsoft guy told me
that the bug level was
set at the killer kitten
level so that if the,
if the bug potentially kill
a kitten, then they would
fix that. Otherwise I think
they're both slightly lower, considerably
lower than that. It's a
lot lower than kill a
kitten cause nobody wants to
kill kittens, but you do
have to make choices. And
you are always making choices.
Every time a bug is
submitted, whether it's internal or
external, every time a bug
is submitted, a team looks
at the bug and they
say, okay, yes, we're fixing
it. No, we're not fixing
it. This is the nature
of software development. Every bug
look gets looked at. Every
bug gets a judgment call
made on it. Now the
majority of the bugs that
fit that gets submitted get
fixed really is true on
you may not believe it,
but it's true. The most,
most of the bugs do
get fixed. We're going to
do it. We're going to
take care of most of
them, but sometimes bugs come
in where it's not as
clear. And it's not as
obvious, especially when you get
really close to shipping. Cause
the closer you get to
shipping, there's actually risks associated
with every change. Every chain
time you change, the source
code has the possibility of
introducing new bugs. So as
you get closer to shipping
the level, the bar for
opening for meeting new bugs
gets really, really high and
fixing the bug could introduce
an even worse bug cause
fixing the bug can. And
we have seen this happen.
We've had bugs taken very
late in the game that
have caused that have had
to be fixed one, two,
three, four times. Because every
time you change the code,
every single time you change
it, you, you open the
possibility of doing it, you
know? And at some point
the fall the bar becomes,
you know, okay, would we
issue an MSRP bulletin for
this bug? And if the
answer is yes, by the
way, then almost to the
day we ship, if something
comes in, that is an,
is a, we think the
SSRC would issue a bulletin
on this problem. If it
were, we'll take that fix.
And if we're, you know,
like hours away and something
like that comes in, yeah,
we'll probably ship with it,
but we'll make darn sure
that by the time our
customers get their hands on
it, the fix is available
so that their exposure is
as minimal as humanly possible.
I don't think that's ever
actually happened where we've had
something come in that close
to shipping. So we've never
actually had to do this,
but you know, we're going
to do the right thing.
We're going to do the
right thing by our customers.
We're just going to, which
is to make as sure
as we can that, you
know, they're safe. That's that's
job one. That's why that's
actually why I get so
passionate. And so nutty about
this stuff is that, you
know, it's so important to
get this stuff right. And
it's the, the good news
is you can get to
the 90% case with only
a couple of things. And,
you know, as I said,
unsafety, runtime library validate your
inputs, use authentication, use, use
ankles when appropriate. And you're
90% of the way they
are. It turns out if
you know, and it's, which
actually frustrates me when I
start seeing, you know, really
silly mistakes, which people making
people do make them inside
and outside Microsoft, you know,
you, you were talking about
the TIFF vulnerability. Yeah. I
was really surprised. I had
not realized that they had
reverse engineered and they'd found
it very into the TIF
vulnerability to that. They were
reusing the TIF vulnerability again,
this is in the iPhone.
Yeah. Well, I really appreciate
you taking the time out
of your day to talk
to me earlier. I know
you're really busy guy and
maybe we'll have you on
the show again. No problem.
This has been another episode
of Hansel minutes and we
will see you again next
week. .